no Js versus the browser or window.
If you're coming from the world of front and JavaScript,
particularly for the browser,
you may be thrown off by some of the differences in node versus that kind of environment.
First,
when in the browser or the consul of a browser,
there are a number of global variables and functions that are available to you that have no
counterpart in note.
Here's a partial list of them,
as you can see,
these air built in features that let you do things like manipulate objects on the screen or
redirect users from one place to another.
There's no back and equipment to these,
so there's no way to use them or do anything like that in node.
Also,
the converse is true.
There are a number of things that are possible from the back end that have no equivalent on
the front end.
This includes writing to the file system,
interacting with the operating system,
etcetera.
To facilitate these features,
Node makes a number of AP eyes and global's available and will be going over those later in
these lectures when appropriate.
All note.
When we're using vanilla JavaScript,
such as writing a four loop.
And when we're using a feature specific to note,
such as getting the number of cores of the current operating system.
For now,
all you have to remember is that nothing related to a window objects,
browser objects,
the screen or the brasher location make any sense in Noda Land,
and that note is devoid of anything like those.
Another major difference between note and the browser is that node is a single static
environment.
If you done much work in the browser,
you know how much of a pain cross browser compatibility is.
One feature Working Chrome but will fail in Internet Explorer or something will work a
certain way in opera but a totally different way in Safari or Firefox.
Cross browser issues take loads of time and patients both from the Debs and the Q A People
and the end users.
Luckily,
on the back end,
there's no such issue.
When you're building a node application,
you don't have to worry about it running well on X platform,
or why distribution.
You only have to get it to run on the servers you're using and the local host environment.
You're working on much of the time.
This is trivial.
Anywhere you have given node version installed,
it will be able to run your application the way it's intended.
And if you have issues with cross platform compatibility,
there are container solutions like doctor that make your life a lot easier.
But that's rarely even necessary.
The last important difference between note and the browser is the fact that the Java script
source code within node can't be seen by the end users.
When you're writing job script in the browser,
you must take into account that anything you write can be seen by the user if they view
source on the document.
But in node,
there's no way for them to do that.
This means you can use private keys and other sensitive information in your code without
worrying about prying eyes.